We previously talked
about how agents
can plan with models
that are incomplete.
Now, let's discuss how
agents can plan with
models that are inaccurate
because of changes
in the environment.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to;
explain how model inaccuracies
produce another
exploration-exploitation trade-off,
and describe how Dyna-Q
addresses this trade-off.
When the agents
model is inaccurate,
planning will likely
make the policy or value
function worse with respect
to the environment.
That means the agent has
a vested interest in
making sure it's
model stays accurate.
In this example, the robust model
initially says that
the rabbit will
go directly to the carrot if
it chooses the move right.
However, after moving right,
the rabbit finds itself
in the middle square.
After experiencing
this transition,
the rabbit can update
its model of the world.
The update reflects that
choosing the move right action,
in the leftmost square,
will result in moving
to the middle square.
We saw that the rabid corrected
its model after experiencing
a transition in the environment.
In general, an agent
might want to
double-check that all its models
transitions are correct.
However, double-checking
transitions with
low valued actions will
often lead to low reward.
In changing environments,
the agent's model might become
inaccurate at any time.
So the agent has
to make a choice;
explorer to make sure
it's model is accurate,
or exploit the model to
compute the optimal policy,
assuming that
the model is correct.
When the environment changes,
the model will be incorrect.
It will remain incorrect
until the agent
revisits that part
of the environment that
changed and updates the model.
This suggests that
the agent should
explore places it has
not been to in a while.
Let's think about
how that might work.
Roughly speaking, the model
is more likely to be
wrong and states the agent has
not visited in a long time.
For example, let say the rabbit
knows the turtle starts
in the following cell.
Since the turtle moves slowly,
it can't move very far in
the first few time-steps.
However, after a long time,
the turtle might be in
a totally different cell
than it started in,
making the rabbits
model incorrect.
To encourage the agent to
revisit its state periodically,
we can add a bonus to
the reward used in planning.
This bonus is simply Kappa,
times the square root
of Tau, where r,
is the reward from the model
and Tau is the amount of time
it's been since the
state action pair
was last visited in
the environment.
Tau is not updated in
the planning loop,
that would not be a real visit.
Kappa is a small constant that
controls the influence of
the bonus on the planning update.
If Kappa was zero,
we would ignore
the bonus completely.
Adding this exploration
bonus to the planning
updates results in the
Dyna-Q+ algorithm.
By artificially increasing
the rewards used in planning,
we increase the value
of state action
pairs it haven't been
visited recently.
How exactly does this
encourage exploration?
Imagine a state action pair essay
that has not been
visited in a long time.
That means the Tau will be large.
As Tau grows, the bonus
becomes bigger and bigger.
Eventually, planning will
change the policy to
go directly to S due
to the large bonus.
When the agent finally
visit state S,
it might see a big reward,
or it might be disappointed.
Either way, the model
will be updated
to reflect the dynamics
of the environment.
Let's look at the shortcut
maze to understand
the difference between
Dyna-Q and Dyna-Q+.
In this example,
the objective is to get to
the goal from the start state
as fast as possible.
The rewards are zero everywhere,
except for the
terminal transition,
which emits a reward of plus one.
The discount factor is
less than one because we
want to encourage the agent
to reach the goal quickly.
Both Dyna-Q and Dyna-Q+ use
epsilon-greedy action selection.
For the first half
of the experiment,
Dyna-Q and Dyna-Q+
behave very similarly.
In this case,
the increased exploration
by Dyna-Q+ helps define
a good policy more quickly.
That is why Dyna-Q+ line
is above the Dyna-Q+ line.
Now, we create a shortcut on
the right side of the wall.
Let's see how Dyna-Q and
Dyna-Q+ adapt to that change.
Can they find the shorter path to
the goal through
the right side of the wall?
Here are the results,
Dyna-Q+ finds a shortcut
soon after the
environment changes,
Dyna-Q on the other hand,
does not find the shortcut
in the time allotted.
Eventually, Dyna-Q will find
the shortcut by re-exploring
the entire state action space
using epsilon-greedy.
However, doing so would require
at least seven exploratory
actions in a row.
So it could take
a very long time.
In this environment, the
persistent and
systematic exploration
of Dyna-Q+ was key.
In this video, we
talked about how;
model accuracy
produces a new variant
of the exploration-exploitation
trade-off.
The agent has to explore to make
sure it's model is accurate.
We also talked about how Dyna-Q+
uses expiration bonuses to
explore the environment.